# Men

## Attributes
Old school games typically describes a character or monster using just a line of text: 

*Orc:* AC6, MV9, HD1, 4hp, #AT1, D 1d6 by Sword.

**Armor Class [AC]** Shows how difficult it is to hit a character. Lower numbers are harder to hit.

**Movement Rate [MV]** How many feet per round can a character move during combat.

**Hit Die [HD]** Number of six sided dice rolled to determine a character hit points.

**Hit points [hp]** Shows how much damage a character can withstand.

**Number of Attacks [#AT]** Number of attacks.

**Damage Die [D]** Dice used to roll for damage.


## Combat

**Initiative** determines turn order during combat, everyone involved roll 1d20+MV. The best score has initiative, the rest acts in descending order.

**To attack**, roll 1d20 adding the attackers HD + targets AC, +1 if using a two-handed weapon. If the roll is a natural 20 or the sum is 20 or higher, it’s a successful hit.

**Damage** is dealt when someone lands a successful hit, roll D, and subtract that score from the target’s hp.
At or below 0hp characters are incapacitated.

**Ofensive Maneuvers** like disarming your opponent, slipping past, knocking furniture over, switching positions, pushing back and others are possible. In order to perform them, the attacker must describe the maneuver before rolling to hit.
A natural roll of 20 means that the maneuver was executed successfully. 
On a normal successful hit, the opponent decides whether to take damage or allow the maneuver.

**Defensive Maneuvers** can be performed any time a character would take damage in combat, before damage is rolled, the player can opt to describe if the character desperately tries to parry with his off-hand weapon, losing grip and dropping it in the process, or sacrificing his shield to avoid receiving damage.


## Feats
On most adventures, characters need to perform feats under pressure like sneaking past monsters, hiding, moving silently, picking locks or climbing steep walls. Player's attempt those feats describing how will the character carry them out.  

Then, the player rolls 1d20 adding the character's HD+MV. If the roll is a natural 20, or the sum is 20 or higher, the feat is successful and the game master describes the consequence of such feat. 


## Saving Throws
Sometimes, characters have to face perils like falls, fire, poison and even some magical effects. Player's can request a save, describing how the character tries to avoid or ameliorate those risks.

Then, the player rolls 1d20 adding the character's HD+4. If the roll is a natural 20, or the sum is 20 or higher, it’s a successful save and the game master describes the mitigated effects of such dangers.

## Using Magic 
is a simple yet risky endeavor. Most spells and magic items are self-descriptive and any PC can use weapons, rings, potions, or wands that are magical by nature or store magic within them.
Characters can cast as many spell levels per day as they have HD, taking 1 turn per spell level to read it aloud from a scroll or book (having an effective AC10 during that time), then rolling 1d6+HD minus that spell level. If the score is equal or under that spell level, the PC drops to 0hp and falls into a catatonic state for the rest of the day.



